
[Pages S1166-S1167]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 74

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 74, a bill to prohibit 
paying Members of Congress during periods during which a Government 
shutdown is in effect, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 162

  At the request of Ms. Smith, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 162, a bill to provide back 
pay to low-wage contractor employees, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the 
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) were added as cosponsors of S. 
203, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently 
extend the railroad track maintenance credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 204

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 204, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to waive certain penalties for 
affected Federal employees receiving a distribution from the Thrift 
Savings Plan during a lapse in appropriations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 213

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 213, a bill to amend 
the SOAR Act.


                                 S. 235

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 235, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of Education to award grants to establish teacher leader 
development programs.


                                 S. 262

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the names of the Senator from 
Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 262, a bill to provide for a 
pay increase in 2019 for certain civilian employees of the Federal 
Government, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 274

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Braun) was added as a cosponsor of S. 274, a bill to ensure that 
organizations with religious or moral convictions are allowed to 
continue to provide services for children.


                                 S. 296

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health 
services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 319

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 319, a bill to improve 
the reproductive assistance provided by the Department of Defense and 
the Department of Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, ill, or injured 
members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their spouses or partners, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 367

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 367, a bill to provide for the 
administration of certain national monuments, to establish a National 
Monument Enhancement Fund, and to establish certain wilderness areas in 
the States of New Mexico and Nevada.


                                 S. 368

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 368, a bill to prohibit 
the application of certain restrictive eligibility requirements to 
foreign nongovernmental organizations with respect to the provision of 
assistance under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


                                 S. 378

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 378, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to establish an excise tax on certain prescription 
drugs which have been subject to a price spike, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 380

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 380, a bill to increase access to 
agency guidance documents.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 382, a bill to authorize a special 
resource study on the spread vectors of chronic wasting disease in 
Cervidae, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 385

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 385, a bill to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide increased labor law protections 
for agricultural workers, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 387

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 387, a bill to prohibit 
Federal agencies and Federal contractors from requesting that an 
applicant for employment disclose criminal history record information 
before the applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 408

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 408, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to provide for annual cost-of-living adjustments to 
be made automatically by law each year in the rates of disability 
compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities and the 
rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for survivors of certain 
service-connected disabled veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 409

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 409, a bill to 
posthumously award a Congressional Gold Medal in commemoration of 
Aretha Franklin.

[[Page S1167]]

  



                           AMENDMENT NO. 134

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 134 
intended to be proposed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the management 
of the natural resources of the United States, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 157

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 157 
intended to be proposed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the management 
of the natural resources of the United States, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________

