
[Pages S1170-S1174]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 171. Mr. CRAMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. 
Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the 
natural resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of tile V, insert the following:

     SEC. 5___. CADASTRE OF FEDERAL REAL PROPERTY.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Cadastre.--
       (A) In general.--The term ``cadastre'' means an inventory 
     of real property developed through collecting, storing, 
     retrieving, or disseminating graphical or digital data 
     depicting natural or man-made physical features, phenomena, 
     or boundaries of the earth, and any information related to 
     the data, including--
       (i) surveys;
       (ii) maps;
       (iii) charts;
       (iv) satellite and airborne remote sensing data;
       (v) images; and
       (vi) services, including services of an architectural or 
     engineering nature performed by 1 or more professionals, such 
     as--

       (I) a surveyor;
       (II) a photogrammetrist;
       (III) a hydrographer;
       (IV) a geodesist; and
       (V) a cartographer.

       (B) Inclusions.--The term ``cadastre'' includes--
       (i) a reference frame consisting of a current geodetic 
     network;
       (ii) a series of current and accurate large-scale maps;
       (iii) an existing cadastral boundary overlay delineating 
     all cadastral parcels;
       (iv) a system for indexing and identifying each cadastral 
     parcel; and
       (v) a series of land data files, each including the parcel 
     identifier, which can be used to retrieve information and 
     cross-reference between and among other existing data files 
     that may contain information about the use, assets, and 
     infrastructure of each parcel.
       (2) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
     Department of the Interior.
       (3) Real property.--The term ``real property'' means real 
     estate consisting of--
       (A) land;
       (B) buildings, crops, forests, or other resources still 
     attached to or within the land;
       (C) improvements or fixtures permanently attached to the 
     land;
       (D) any structure on the land; or
       (E) any interest, benefit, right, or privilege in the 
     property described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
       (b) Cadastre of Federal Real Property.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary shall develop and maintain a 
     current and accurate multipurpose cadastre of Federal real 
     property and any real property included under paragraph 
     (2)(A) to support Federal land management activities on 
     Federal real property, including--
       (A) resource development and conservation;
       (B) agricultural use;
       (C) active forest management;
       (D) environmental protection; and
       (E) other use of the real property.
       (2) Cost-sharing.--
       (A) In general.--The Secretary may enter into cost-sharing 
     agreements with States to include any non-Federal land in a 
     State in the cadastre under paragraph (1).
       (B) Cost share.--The Federal share of any cost-sharing 
     agreement described in subparagraph (A) shall not exceed 50 
     percent of the total cost to a State for the development of 
     the cadastre of non-Federal land in the State.
       (3) Consolidation and report.--Not later than 180 days 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
     submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
     the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
     House of Representatives a report describing--
       (A) the existing real property inventories or any 
     components of any cadastre of Federal real property currently 
     authorized by law or maintained by the Department, 
     including--
       (i) the statutory authorization for each existing real 
     property inventory or component of a cadastre; and
       (ii) the amount expended by the Federal Government for each 
     existing real property inventory or component of a cadastre 
     in fiscal year 2017;
       (B) the existing real property inventories or any 
     components of any cadastre of Federal real property currently 
     authorized by law or maintained by the Department that will 
     be eliminated or consolidated into the multipurpose cadastre 
     under paragraph (1);
       (C)(i) the existing real property inventories or any 
     components of any cadastre of Federal real property currently 
     authorized by law or maintained by the Department that will 
     not be eliminated or consolidated into the multipurpose 
     cadastre under paragraph (1); and
       (ii) a justification for not eliminating or consolidating 
     an existing real property inventory or component of a 
     cadastre described in clause (i) into the multipurpose 
     cadastre under paragraph (1);
       (D) the use of existing real property inventories or any 
     components of any cadastre currently maintained by any unit 
     of State or local government that can be used to identify 
     Federal real property within that unit of government;
       (E) the cost-savings that will be achieved by eliminating 
     or consolidating duplicative or unneeded real property 
     inventories or any components of any cadastre of Federal real 
     property currently authorized by law or maintained by the 
     Department that will become part of the multipurpose cadastre 
     under paragraph (1);
       (F) a plan for the implementation of this section, 
     including a cost estimate and an assessment of the 
     feasibility of using revenue from any transactional activity 
     authorized by law to offset any costs of implementing this 
     section;
       (G) an assessment described in subparagraphs (A) through 
     (E) with regard to each cadastre and inventory of Federal 
     real property authorized, operated, or maintained by each 
     other Federal agency, which shall be conducted in 
     consultation with the Director of the Office of Management 
     and Budget, the Administrator of the General Services 
     Administration, and the Comptroller General of the United 
     States; and
       (H) recommendations for any legislation necessary to 
     increase the cost-savings and enhance the effectiveness and 
     efficiency of replacing, eliminating, or consolidating 
     Federal real property inventories or any components of any 
     cadastre of Federal real property currently authorized by law 
     or maintained by the Department.
       (4) Coordination.--
       (A) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
     Secretary shall--
       (i) participate (in accordance with section 216 of the E-
     Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3501 note; Public Law 107-
     347)) in the establishment of such standards and common 
     protocols as are necessary to ensure the interoperability of 
     geospatial information pertaining to the cadastre under 
     subsection (b)(1) for all users of the information;
       (ii) coordinate with, seek assistance and cooperation of, 
     and provide liaison to the Federal Geographic Data Committee 
     pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-16 and 
     Executive Order 12906 (43 U.S.C. 1457 note; relating to 
     coordinating geographic data acquisition and access: the 
     National Spatial Data Infrastructure) for the implementation 
     of and compliance with such standards as may be applicable to 
     the cadastre under subsection (b)(1);
       (iii) integrate, or make the cadastre interoperable with, 
     the Federal Real Property Profile established pursuant to 
     Executive Order 13327 (40 U.S.C. 121 note; relating to 
     Federal real property asset management);
       (iv) to the maximum extent practicable, integrate with and 
     leverage current cadastre activities of units of State and 
     local government; and
       (v) to the maximum extent practicable, use contracts with 
     the private sector to provide such products and services as 
     are necessary to develop the cadastre under subsection 
     (b)(1).
       (B) Contracts considered surveying and mapping.--
       (i) In general.--A contract entered into under subparagraph 
     (A)(v) shall be considered to be a contract for services of 
     surveying and mapping (within the meaning of chapter 11 of 
     title 40, United States Code).
       (ii) Selection procedures.--A contract under subparagraph 
     (A)(v) shall be entered into in accordance with the selection 
     procedures in chapter 11 of title 40, United States Code.
       (c) Transparency and Public Access.--The Secretary shall--
       (1) make the cadastre under subsection (b)(1) publically 
     available on the Internet in a graphically geo-enabled and 
     searchable format;
       (2) ensure that the inventory referred to in subsection (b) 
     includes the identification of all land suitable for disposal 
     in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
     of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
       (3) in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, prevent the disclosure of any 
     parcel or parcels of land, any buildings or facilities on the 
     land, or any information related to the land, buildings, or 
     facilities if that disclosure would impair or jeopardize the 
     national security or homeland defense of the United States.

[[Page S1171]]

       (d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
       (1) creates any substantive or procedural right or benefit; 
     or
       (2) requires or authorizes--
       (A) any new surveying or mapping of Federal real property;
       (B) the evaluation of any parcel of land or other real 
     property for potential management by a non-Federal entity;
       (C) the disposal of any Federal real property; or
       (D) any new appraisal or assessment of--
       (i) the value of any parcel of Federal land or other real 
     property; or
       (ii) the cultural and archaeological resources on any 
     parcel of Federal land or other real property.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 172. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Scott of Florida) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 112 proposed by Ms. 
Murkowski to the amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. Murkowski (for 
herself and Mr. Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide for the 
management of the natural resources of the United States, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 1, after line 8, add the following:

     SEC. 2402A. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

       (a) In General.--Section 2(b) of the Strengthening Coastal 
     Communities Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-358) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(36) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (1 of 
     2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
     Unit P30P.
       ``(37) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (2 of 
     2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
     Unit P30P.''.
       (b) Effect.--Section 7003 shall have no force or effect.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 173. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:
       The provisions in this Act shall go into effect 1 day after 
     enactment.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 174. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 1, line 1, strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 175. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:
       The provisions in this Act shall go into effect 3 days 
     after enactment.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 176. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 1, line 1, strike ``3'' and insert ``4''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 177. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:
       The provisions in this Act shall go into effect 5 days 
     after enactment.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 178. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 1, line 1, strike ``5'' and insert ``6''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 179. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the following:

     SEC. 11__. SAN JUAN COUNTY SETTLEMENT IMPLEMENTATION.

       (a) Exchange of Coal Preference Right Lease Applications.--
       (1) Definition of bidding right.--In this subsection, the 
     term ``bidding right'' means an appropriate legal instrument 
     or other written documentation, including an entry in an 
     account managed by the Secretary, issued or created under 
     subpart 3435 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, that 
     may be used--
       (A) in lieu of a monetary payment for 50 percent of a bonus 
     bid for a coal lease sale under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
     U.S.C. 181 et seq.); or
       (B) as a monetary credit against 50 percent of any rental 
     or royalty payments due under any Federal coal lease.
       (2) Use of bidding right.--
       (A) In general.--If the Secretary retires a coal preference 
     right lease application under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
     U.S.C. 181 et seq.) by issuing a bidding right in exchange 
     for the relinquishment of the coal preference right lease 
     application, the bidding right subsequently may be used in 
     lieu of 50 percent of the amount owed for any monetary 
     payment of--
       (i) a bonus in a coal lease sale; or
       (ii) rental or royalty under a Federal coal lease.
       (B) Payment calculation.--
       (i) In general.--The Secretary shall calculate a payment of 
     amounts owed to a relevant State under section 35(a) of the 
     Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)) based on the combined 
     value of the bidding rights and amounts received.
       (ii) Amounts received.--Except as provided in this 
     paragraph, for purposes of calculating the payment of amounts 
     owed to a relevant State under clause (i) only, a bidding 
     right shall be considered amounts received.
       (C) Requirement.--The total number of bidding rights issued 
     by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) before October 1, 
     2029, shall not exceed the number of bidding rights that 
     reflect a value equivalent to $67,000,000.
       (3) Source of payments.--The Secretary shall make payments 
     to the relevant State under paragraph (2) from monetary 
     payments received by the Secretary when bidding rights are 
     exercised under this section.
       (4) Treatment of payments.--A payment to a State under this 
     subsection shall be treated as a payment under section 35(a) 
     of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)).
       (5) Transferability; limitation.--
       (A) Transferability.--A bidding right issued for a coal 
     preference right lease application under the Mineral Leasing 
     Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) shall be fully transferable to 
     any other person.
       (B) Notification of secretary.--A person who transfers a 
     bidding right shall notify the Secretary of the transfer by 
     any method determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
       (C) Effective period.--
       (i) In general.--A bidding right issued under the Mineral 
     Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) shall terminate on the 
     expiration of the 7-year period beginning on the date the 
     bidding right is issued.
       (ii) Tolling of period.--The 7-year period described in 
     clause (i) shall be tolled during any period in which 
     exercise of the bidding right is precluded by temporary 
     injunctive relief granted under, or administrative, 
     legislative, or judicial suspension of, the Federal coal 
     leasing program.
       (6) Deadline.--
       (A) In general.--If an existing settlement of a coal 
     preference right lease application has not been implemented 
     as of the date of enactment of this Act, not later than 180 
     days after that date of enactment, the Secretary shall 
     complete the bidding rights valuation process in accordance 
     with the terms of the settlement.
       (B) Date of valuation.--For purposes of the valuation 
     process under subparagraph (A), the market price of coal 
     shall be determined as of the date of the settlement.
       (b) Certain Land Selections of the Navajo Nation.--
       (1) Cancellation of certain selections.--The land 
     selections made by the Navajo Nation pursuant to Public Law 
     93-531 (commonly known as the ``Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement 
     Act of 1974'') (25 U.S.C. 640d et seq.) that are depicted on 
     the map entitled ``Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement Act Selected 
     Lands'' and dated April 2, 2015, are cancelled.
       (2) Authorization for new selection.--
       (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) 
     and paragraph (3), the Navajo Nation may make new land 
     selections in accordance with the Act referred to in 
     paragraph (1) to replace the land selections cancelled under 
     that paragraph.
       (B) Acreage cap.--The total acreage of land selected under 
     subparagraph (A) shall not exceed 15,000 acres of land.
       (C) Exclusions.--The following land shall not be eligible 
     for selection under subparagraph (A):
       (i) Land within a unit of the National Landscape 
     Conservation System.
       (ii) Land within--

       (I) the Glade Run Recreation Area;
       (II) the Fossil Forest Research Natural Area; or
       (III) a special management area or area of critical 
     environmental concern identified in a land use plan developed 
     under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
     Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) that is in effect on the date of 
     enactment of this Act.

       (iii) Any land subject to a lease or contract under the 
     Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Act of 
     July 31, 1947 (commonly known as the ``Materials Act of 
     1947'') (30 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) as of the date of the 
     selection.
       (iv) Land not under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
     Management.

[[Page S1172]]

       (v) Land identified as ``Parcels Excluded from Selection'' 
     on the map entitled ``Parcels excluded for selection under 
     the San Juan County Settlement Implementation Act'' and dated 
     December 14, 2018.
       (D) Deadline.--Not later than 7 years after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Navajo Nation shall make all 
     selections under subparagraph (A).
       (E) Withdrawal.--Any land selected by the Navajo Nation 
     under subparagraph (A) shall be withdrawn from disposal, 
     leasing, and development until the date on which the selected 
     land is placed into trust for the Navajo Nation.
       (3) Equal value.--
       (A) In general.--Notwithstanding the acreage limitation in 
     the second proviso of section 11(c) of Public Law 93-531 
     (commonly known as the ``Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement Act of 
     1974'') (25 U.S.C. 640d-10(c)) and subject to paragraph 
     (2)(B), the value of the land selected under paragraph (2)(A) 
     and the land subject to selections cancellation under 
     paragraph (1) shall be equal, based on appraisals conducted 
     under subparagraph (B).
       (B) Appraisals.--
       (i) In general.--The value of the land selected under 
     paragraph (2)(A) and the land subject to selections cancelled 
     under paragraph (1) shall be determined by appraisals 
     conducted in accordance with--

       (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
     Acquisitions; and
       (II) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
     Practice.

       (ii) Timing.--

       (I) Land subject to selections cancelled.--Not later than 
     18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
     appraisal under clause (i) of the land subject to selections 
     cancelled under paragraph (1) shall be completed.
       (II) New selections.--The appraisals under clause (i) of 
     the land selected under paragraph (2)(A) shall be completed 
     as the Navajo Nation finalizes those land selections.

       (4) Boundary.--For purposes of this subsection and the Act 
     referred to in paragraph (1), the present boundary of the 
     Navajo Reservation is depicted on the map entitled ``Navajo 
     Nation Boundary'' and dated November 16, 2015.
       (c) Designation of Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness.--
       (1) In general.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
     U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the approximately 7,242 acres of land 
     as generally depicted on the map entitled ``San Juan County 
     Wilderness Designations'' and dated April 2, 2015, is 
     designated as wilderness and as a component of the National 
     Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the 
     ``Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness'' (referred to in this subsection 
     as the ``Wilderness'').
       (2) Management.--
       (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
     Wilderness shall be administered by the Director of the 
     Bureau of Land Management in accordance with this subsection 
     and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that 
     any reference in that Act to the effective date of that Act 
     shall be considered to be a reference to the date of 
     enactment of this Act.
       (B) Adjacent management.--
       (i) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
     designation of the Wilderness to create a protective 
     perimeter or buffer zone around the Wilderness.
       (ii) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
     activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within the 
     Wilderness shall not preclude the conduct of the activities 
     or uses outside the boundary of the Wilderness.
       (C) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--
     Any land or interest in land that is within the boundary of 
     the Wilderness that is acquired by the United States shall--
       (i) become part of the Wilderness; and
       (ii) be managed in accordance with--

       (I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.);
       (II) this subsection; and
       (III) any other applicable laws.

       (D) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Wilderness, where 
     established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall 
     be allowed to continue in accordance with--
       (i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
     1133(d)(4)); and
       (ii) the guidelines set forth in the report of the 
     Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress 
     (H. Rept. 96-617).
       (3) Release of wilderness study areas.--Congress finds 
     that, for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land 
     Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the 
     land within the Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness Study Area not 
     designated as wilderness by this subsection has been 
     adequately studied for wilderness designation and is no 
     longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy 
     and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).
       (d) Expansion of Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.--
       (1) In general.--There is designated as wilderness and as a 
     component of the National Wilderness Preservation System 
     certain Federal land comprising approximately 2,250 acres, as 
     generally depicted on the map entitled ``San Juan County 
     Wilderness Designations'' and dated April 2, 2015, which is 
     incorporated in and shall be considered to be a part of the 
     Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.
       (2) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
     land designated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall be 
     administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management 
     (referred to in this subsection as the ``Director''), in 
     accordance with--
       (A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except 
     that any reference in that Act to the effective date of that 
     Act shall be considered to be a reference to the date of 
     enactment of this Act; and
       (B) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protection Act of 1984 
     (Public Law 98-603; 98 Stat. 3155; 110 Stat. 4211).
       (3) Adjacent management.--
       (A) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
     designation of the land as wilderness by paragraph (1) to 
     create a protective perimeter or buffer zone around that 
     land.
       (B) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
     activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within the 
     land designated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall not 
     preclude the conduct of the activities or uses outside the 
     boundary of that land.
       (4) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--
     Any land or interest in land that is within the boundary of 
     the land designated as wilderness by paragraph (1) that is 
     acquired by the United States shall--
       (A) become part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness; and
       (B) be managed in accordance with--
       (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.);
       (ii) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protection Act of 1984 
     (Public Law 98-603; 98 Stat. 3155; 110 Stat. 4211);
       (iii) this subsection; and
       (iv) any other applicable laws.
       (5) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the land designated 
     as wilderness by paragraph (1), where established before the 
     date of enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue 
     in accordance with--
       (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
     1133(d)(4)); and
       (B) the guidelines set forth in the report of the Committee 
     on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress 
     (H. Rept. 96-617).
       (e) Road Maintenance.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary, 
     acting through the Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
     shall ensure that L-54 between I-40 and Alamo, New Mexico, is 
     maintained in a condition that is safe for motorized use.
       (2) Use of funds.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary and the Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
     may not require any Indian Tribe to use any funds--
       (A) owned by the Indian Tribe; or
       (B) provided to the Indian Tribe pursuant to a contract 
     under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
     Act (25 U.S.C. 5304 et seq.).
       (3) Road upgrade.--
       (A) In general.--Nothing in this subsection requires the 
     Secretary or any Indian Tribe to upgrade the condition of L-
     54 as of the date of enactment of this Act.
       (B) Written agreement.--An upgrade to L-54 may not be made 
     without the written agreement of the Pueblo of Laguna.
       (4) Inventory.--Nothing in this subsection requires L-54 to 
     be placed on the National Tribal Transportation Facility 
     Inventory.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 180. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Scott of Florida) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. 
Murkowski (for herself and Mr. Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide 
for the management of the natural resources of the United States, and 
for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 7003 and insert the following:

     SEC. 7003. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

       Section 2(b) of the Strengthening Coastal Communities Act 
     of 2018 (Public Law 115-358) is amended by adding at the end 
     the following:
       ``(36) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (1 of 
     2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
     Unit P30P.
       ``(37) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (2 of 
     2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
     Unit P30P.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 181. Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr. Cornyn) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. Murkowski 
(for herself and Mr. Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide for the 
management of the natural resources of the United States, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 695 of the amendment, after line 22, add the 
     following:

     SEC. 90__. REPORT ON MAINTAINING FEDERAL LAND HOLDINGS UNDER 
                   THE JURISDICTION OF THE SECRETARY OF THE 
                   INTERIOR.

       Not later than 120 days after the date on which the 
     President submits to Congress the budget of the United States 
     for fiscal year 2020, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
     a report that describes--
       (1) all Federal land holdings under the jurisdiction of the 
     Secretary; and

[[Page S1173]]

       (2) the total cost of maintaining the Federal land holdings 
     described under paragraph (1) for each of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2019, including an accounting of holdings and 
     expenditures by each Federal agency with respect to the land 
     holdings.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 182. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Scott of Florida) proposed an 
amendment to amendment SA 112 proposed by Ms. Murkowski to the 
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. 
Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the 
natural resources of the United States, and for other purposes; as 
follows:

       At the end, add the following:

     SEC. 2402A. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

       (a) In General.--Section 2(b) of the Strengthening Coastal 
     Communities Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-358) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(36) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (1 of 
     2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
     Unit P30P.
       ``(37) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (2 of 
     2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
     Unit P30P.''.
       (b) Effect.--Section 7003 shall have no force or effect.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 183. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. 
Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the 
natural resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 3002.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 184. Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Cassidy, and Mr. Reed) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 111 proposed by 
Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to 
provide for the management of the natural resources of the United 
States, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title II, add the following:

     SEC. 24___. MODIFICATIONS TO THE PRESERVE AMERICA PROGRAM.

       (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
       (1) to strengthen economic development across the United 
     States by supporting cultural heritage tourism and historic 
     preservation activities through the Preserve America Program; 
     and
       (2) to encourage the Director of the National Park Service 
     to partner with gateway communities (including Native 
     American communities and National Heritage Areas) to leverage 
     local cultural and historic heritage tourism assets.
       (b) Preserve America Grant Program.--
       (1) Establishment.--Section 311102 of title 54, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (d)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and the Secretary of 
     Commerce'' after ``Council''; and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) Advisory role of secretary of commerce.--The 
     Secretary of Commerce shall advise the program with respect 
     to job creation, economic growth, and tourism policy and 
     promotion.''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(f) Technical Assistance.--
       ``(1) In general.--For any fiscal year for which funds are 
     not made available to provide grants under this section, to 
     the extent practicable, the program shall, in lieu of the 
     grants, provide technical assistance to the eligible entities 
     described in subsection (a) for projects that meet the 
     eligibility requirements described in subsection (b), as 
     identified on the list of projects prepared by the Secretary 
     in accordance with subsection (d).
       ``(2) Limitation.--The Secretary may take into account the 
     availability of staff resources at the Department of the 
     Interior, the Council, and the Department of Commerce for 
     purposes of determining the number of projects that are 
     provided technical assistance under this subsection.
       ``(3) Form.--The form of technical assistance under 
     paragraph (1) may include technical assistance provided by--
       ``(A) the Director, with respect to--
       ``(i) best practices in visitor services;
       ``(ii) the conduct of research, inventories, and surveys;
       ``(iii) the documentation of historic resources; and
       ``(iv) the interpretation and promotion of cultural and 
     heritage assets;
       ``(B) the Council, with respect to historic preservation 
     initiatives and best practices in stewardship; and
       ``(C) the Secretary of Commerce, with respect to economic 
     development and job creation resources.''.
       (2) Program metrics.--Chapter 3111 of title 54, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (A) by redesignating section 311105 as section 311106; and
       (B) by inserting after section 311104 the following:

     ``Sec. 311105. Reports

       ``(a) Metrics.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of the Natural Resources Management Act, the 
     Secretary, in consultation with the Council and the Secretary 
     of Commerce, shall develop specific metrics to measure the 
     effectiveness of the program, including--
       ``(1) the economic impact of the program on local 
     communities (including Native American communities and 
     National Heritage Areas); and
       ``(2) the effect of the program on efforts to preserve 
     heritage resources.
       ``(b) Grantee Report.--Not later than 2 years after the 
     date on which a grantee receives a grant or technical 
     assistance under this chapter, the grantee shall submit to 
     the Secretary a report that--
       ``(1) describes the outcome of the project that was 
     provided a grant or technical assistance under this chapter; 
     and
       ``(2) based on the metrics developed under subsection (a), 
     assesses--
       ``(A) the accomplishments of the project; and
       ``(B) the impact of the project on the community in which 
     the project was carried out.
       ``(c) Annual Reports.--The Secretary shall submit an annual 
     report to the appropriate committees of Congress that 
     includes data provided by grantees to demonstrate the 
     economic impact of the program.''.
       (3) Conforming amendment.--The table of sections for 
     chapter 3111 of title 54, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking the item relating to section 311105 and inserting 
     the following:

``311105. Reports.
``311106. Authorization of appropriations.''.
       (c) National Park Service Partnerships With Gateway 
     Communities.--
       (1) In general.--Subdivision 1 of division B of subtitle 
     III of title 54, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
     the end the following:

         ``CHAPTER 3092--PARTNERSHIPS WITH GATEWAY COMMUNITIES

``Sec.
``309201. Definitions.
``309202. Partnerships with gateway communities.
``309203. Report.
``309204. Authorization of appropriations.

     ``Sec. 309201. Definitions

       ``In this chapter:
       ``(1) Appropriate congressional committee.--The term 
     `appropriate congressional committee' means--
       ``(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate;
       ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
     Senate;
       ``(C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
       ``(D) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives;
       ``(E) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       ``(F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
       ``(2) Gateway community.--The term `gateway community' 
     means a community adjacent to a unit of the System, including 
     a Native American community or a National Heritage Area.
       ``(3) Heritage tourism.--The term `heritage tourism' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 311101.

     ``Sec. 309202. Partnerships with gateway communities

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall, to the extent 
     practicable, offer to enter into partnerships with gateway 
     communities to leverage heritage tourism assets to strengthen 
     local economies and create jobs in the gateway communities 
     with the goal of establishing a standardized framework for 
     partnerships throughout the System, including through--
       ``(1) providing financial assistance to gateway communities 
     to support outreach and promotional efforts;
       ``(2) providing technical assistance to gateway communities 
     based on Service best practices in tourism development and 
     visitor management, such as--
       ``(A) inventorying tourism resources in the gateway 
     community;
       ``(B) identifying historic heritage and cultural resources;
       ``(C) engaging collaborative partners and stakeholders;
       ``(D) designing community outreach and participation 
     strategies;
       ``(E) developing concept plans for trails, parks, historic 
     resources, and natural areas;
       ``(F) developing sustainable tourism development frameworks 
     for community planning; and
       ``(G) encouraging regional strategies for tourism 
     development and promotion; and
       ``(3) assisting gateway communities in accessing additional 
     Federal resources available to strengthen tourism assets and 
     support economic development.
       ``(b) Obtaining Financial and Technical Assistance.--The 
     Secretary, in consultation with stakeholders of System units, 
     shall establish a process through which States, units of 
     local government, and Tribal governments may apply for 
     designation as a gateway community to become eligible for 
     financial and technical assistance made available under this 
     section.
       ``(c) Metrics.--The Secretary, in consultation with gateway 
     communities, shall develop metrics to measure the impact of 
     the financial and technical assistance provided to gateway 
     communities under this section.

[[Page S1174]]

  


     ``Sec. 309203. Report

       ``Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report that--
       ``(1) describes the efforts of the Secretary to partner 
     with gateway communities under this chapter;
       ``(2) analyzes the results of the financial and technical 
     assistance using the metrics developed under section 
     309202(c); and
       ``(3) identifies--
       ``(A) the next steps that should be taken to improve 
     partnerships with gateway communities; and
       ``(B) any actions that the Secretary will take to improve 
     the partnerships.

     ``Sec. 309204. Authorization of appropriations

       ``There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are 
     necessary to carry out this chapter.''.
       (2) Conforming amendment.--The table of chapters for title 
     54, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to chapter 3091 the following:

  ``3092. Partnerships with gateway communities.............. 309201''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 185. Mr. CARPER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. 
Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the 
natural resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Beginning on page 595 strike line 16 and all that follows 
     through page 603, line 16.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 186. Mr. CARPER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the management of the natural 
resources of the United States, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Beginning on page 568 strike line 9 and all that follows 
     through page 576, line 9.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 187. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Toomey, and Mr. 
Romney) proposed an amendment to amendment SA 112 proposed by Ms. 
Murkowski to the amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. Murkowski (for 
herself and Mr. Manchin) to the bill S. 47, to provide for the 
management of the natural resources of the United States, and for other 
purposes; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, add the following:

     SEC. ___. LIMITATION ON THE EXTENSION OR ESTABLISHMENT OF 
                   NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN THE STATE OF UTAH.

       Section 320301(d) of title 54, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``Wyoming'' and inserting 
     ``the State of Wyoming or Utah''; and
       (2) by striking ``Wyoming'' and inserting ``the State of 
     Wyoming or Utah''.

                          ____________________